I have over 100 homekit devices in my
house and a lot of them are sensors from
contact sensors to tell if a door is
open a new vibration sensor I'm trying
out on a washing machine motion sensors
to turn on lights in closets and patios
a new solar powered pool sensor that's
telling me the pH chlorine and other
data plus water leak sensors outdoor
weather temperature and more so in this
video I'm going to tell you 10 of the
automations I use around my house using
all these sensors and before we jump in
don't forget to subscribe to the channel
before you go so first up is an
automation that runs every time I enter
my office I actually have a contact
sensor down by the floor and this reads
whether or not the door is opened the
contact sensor I'm using there is
actually the acara door and window
sensor P2 it's a matter over thread
sensor it doesn't require the aara Hub
and it's been super reliable because it
uses thread now I have a bunch of
automations programmed and for this
contact sensor I'm going to go to my
home app and then over to the
automations tab I'm going to be going
over a bunch of these as we talk about
the different sensors but this P2 sensor
is when the office door opens and I have
this automation run only during certain
times of day which is typically when I
enter my studio not only can you add a
time for an automation but you can also
choose if you want this automation to
run when you are home when nobody is
home and all different combinations
there but when my door opens between
7:00 and 8:30 a.m. it's actually going
to run my office work scene it's helpful
to create scenes for automations like
this because then if you add or remove
devices to the scene your automation is
still going to work and just to show you
I'll jump over to my studio room so you
can see the scene and my office work
scene you'll see it opens my blackout
Shades turns on my ceiling fan and the
ceiling fan light then I have a bunch of
scenes for filming which turns those off
and turns on my filming lights if you
want to learn more about my studio
automations I'll put a video above and
in the description next up is actually a
new vibration sensor I'm trying from
aara this thing can detect when
vibration starts and stops I have an
older washing machine and dryer so I
don't get notifications on my phone when
it stops so I put the vibration sensor
on the side of the washing machine cuz
it doesn't make any sound and one of the
triggers you can use for a homekit
sensor is when it detects something or
when it stops detecting something so for
this vibration sensor I chose when it
stops detecting motion which means the
washing machine has stopped running it's
stopped shaking again you can specify
the time or people but I want this to
run whenever because I want to know when
the washing machine is done now homekit
doesn't have great built-in
notifications for when sensors start or
stop certain things but you can create a
shortcut based on this homekit
Automation and then I actually use an
app called push cut to send me that
notification when the washing machine
stops push cut is a great app for
customizing some notifications like this
I actually have a few of them I have one
on a mini fridge when the door is left
open so if you want to learn more about
setting a push cut with homekit
notifications I also have a video on
that linked above and down below number
three I have a bunch of motion sensors
around the house this is the Philips Hue
motion sensor I have this in our pantry
and then I have other motion sensors
like the eve and others and different
closets one of the simple automations I
have for this specific Philips Hue
motion sensor is in the pantry when
motion is detected in that pantry it
turns the pantry light on super simple I
do a motion sensor rather than a contact
sensor which you could do a contact
sensor on the door when whenever door is
opened but sometimes the door gets left
open and if you walk into the pantry and
the door was open just a crack well then
that contact sensor automation is not
going to run so I find a motion sensor
automation like this especially when
going into a closet that usually gets
left open is really reliable one of my
favorite sensors is this aara contact
sensor it's really inexpensive super
small and discreet it does require an
aara Hub I'll put links to one of those
in the description but you can get a
three pack of these contact sensors for
$42 on Amazon it's a pretty great deal
one place where I have these contact
sensors is the door going from our
master bedroom to the patio because I
want to know if that ever gets left open
now this automation I actually have set
up in the acara app because it has built
in when doors are left open for a
certain amount of time just built right
into the app so here for this automation
you see the bedroom patio door contact
sensor if it's opened and then you can
easily set for over 3 minutes so if the
door opens and it's left open for 3
minutes or more then the aara app is
going to send me a notification if
you're looking for using contact sensors
to know when a door is open or not
setting those automations directly in
the aara app is one of the easiest ways
to do it but if you just want to use the
Apple home app and no third party apps
another way to do it is how I'm using an
aara contact sensor on the mini fridge
out on the patio if the mini fridge ever
gets left open that's not a good
situation so I have another automation
here that's when backyard mini fridge
opens so the contact sensor will trigger
this automation whenever it detects the
doors open and I have another shortcut
here but this time I actually have it wa
60 seconds as the first action because I
want to know if the door was left open
not just every time it opens so with the
that wait 60 seconds command then I add
an if statement if the mini fridge
contact sensor is still open after those
60 seconds then I have a push Cuts
notification it'll trigger the
notification to send to my phone and
I'll know that the mini fridge has been
left open so if you want to do
everything just in the home app push
Cuts again is a great way to do that
while we're out here on the patio I've
been trying to make my pool a little
smarter not only with robots but cact
sent me this 7 in1 pool sensor it does
have a micro USB port to charge it but
it also has a solar panel on top and
it's kept itself charged every day I
never have to worry about charging it
again after I spent some time
calibrating it for chlorine and pH I can
now jump into the app for the pool
sensor it does require a small Hub that
you have to have connected nearby but
now I can get all this data on my pool
at a glance I can see the temperature of
the water the pH the salt levels and a
bunch of other data for this 7 in1
sensor I did test these numbers against
actually taking a sample down to pinch
of Penny and seeing what they said and I
find the numbers that the 71 sensor
provides is very accurate you can go in
and see historical data for pH and other
levels we actually have a saltwater pool
so you can see that information here as
well and overall it's just been nice to
check these numbers whenever I want
without having to get a bunch of
chemicals out water samples and all that
stuff also out here on the patio I have
multiple sensors like this eve weather
which will tell me the temperature
outside and combine that with the eve
motion sensor I can now run automations
based on motion and temperature outside
for instance if I walk outside and it's
hot I want the patio fans to turn on now
this particular automation is difficult
ult to build in the actual home app so
actually in the eve app I've built this
Automation and then it transfers over so
if I go to the automations tab here in
the EVAP you can then go over to rules
that's what the EV app calls automations
and one of the ones I created was patio
fans if Hot what this does is I can
choose a trigger and then a condition
whether or not I want action to be taken
so the trigger here is the motion this
eve motion sensor that's typically
outside will detect motion and as soon
as it does it's going to run this
conditional now I stated if the
temperature outside is above 77 which
Florida summertime it pretty much is
most days then it's actually going to
turn on my patio fans but if the
temperature is below 77 it will do
nothing and even though I created it
here in the eve app it actually shows up
here in the home app automation as well
basically what the eve app has to do is
create a scene based on those
conditionals but it's right here I can
enable it or disable it here in the home
app and even select more accessories and
scenes if I wanted to number eight I
have water leak sensors all over the
house these aara water leak sensors do
require an aara Hub you can get an E1
and a water leak sensor for $43 for both
of those and these I place under pretty
much every sink in the house I have had
times where water leak was detected once
was actually a problem with a pipe and
so thankfully got that fixed sometimes
it was just a drippy pipe underneath the
sink and this will give you a warning on
your phone it's a critical Alert in
homekit and then you can take care of
the water leak so love the these things
I put them everywhere you can see it
show up here in the home app as a leak
sensor expand it and it basically says a
simple leak detected yes or no you do
get the battery level here and I found
that these batteries last almost forever
I don't know if I've ever changed a
battery in one of these aara water leak
sensors at number nine I have another
contact sensor this is in my kids
bathroom they have a tendency to leave
the bathroom lights on even when they
leave and are not in there so I put a
contact sensor at the bottom of the door
and then I had this automation when the
kids bathroom door opens this is another
aara P2 contact sensor and I do have it
wait a few seconds cuz if they open the
door and they're just trying to get out
I don't want to shut the lights off on
them that fast so I have it wait 15
seconds and then it turns off the lights
in the bathroom and if they go to the
bathroom turn on the lights but leave
the door open this won't run this only
runs if they had the door closed and
then are leaving the bathroom and it
will shut the lights off so they're not
left on all day you can also combine
that with a motion detector for when
motion stops being detected but I would
recommend doing conditionals because
often times if you're very still in a
room motion sensors will say no motion
detected and just shut the lights off on
you now you might have heard of the
acara present sensor and I actually have
one but have not gotten it to work super
well so I typically don't use it in
automations waiting for an updated
version or some firmware updates to
integrate it more or to number 10 if you
have a garage I highly recommend getting
a garage camera I actually have an aara
G2 camera just sitting in the garage
it's a great way to tell if the garage
is open or closed right now it's dark so
I know it's closed but the great part
about homekit cameras especially hit
secure video is each camera actually
acts as a motion sensor as well so this
garage cam which is the aara G2 actually
has a motion sensor that you can then
automate so when motion is detected in
the garage or you can program any of
your cameras for when motion is detected
you can then build automations off that
I also like having a camera in the
garage because then I can have a quick
glance as whether or not the door is
actually open or closed I do use the
Maris sensor and garage door opener and
it's pretty accurate telling me whether
or not it's closed but I have had some
false posit positives where you have to
kind of open and close it again to reset
it so I just like having the camera
there for peace of mind so those are 10
of my favorite automations for homid
sensors but I want to give you one bonus
shortcut which when you have these
sensors pretty cool you can do if I go
to the shortcuts app I'm going to search
for home and I have this home status
shortcut if I expand you can see what
this does it's actually getting the
current state of different contact
sensors like the garage I have a contact
sensor on my utility room door the patio
and you can add as many as you would
like then I have a little text block
here that basically tells me the status
of each door or lock and shows that to
me in quick look so when I run this
shortcut I'll actually be able to know
is the garage closed or open I can see
right there utility door closed patio
door locked and that's actually the Yale
Smart Lock giving me that status but you
can also add a contact sensor then you
can customize this for all of your
contact sensors even motion sensors and
it's a great way to create just kind of
a current home status if you want to
learn more about building that shortcut
or more shortcuts let me know down in
the comments actually just publ lished a
shortcuts request video you can check it
out right up here and I have an entire
playlist of just requests from you where
I built those shortcuts I'll link that
video down below and if you want a
complete tour of my 2024 smart home with
over 100 homekit devices I'll put my
full tour video right up here don't
forget to subscribe before you go hit
that like button and thank you for
watching I'll catch you next time